<<<<<<< HEAD
Encyclopedia - Wikipedia
Encyclopedia From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search This article is about the type of reference work. For other uses, see Encyclopedia (disambiguation). Encyclopdia Britannica Title page of "Lucubrationes..." 1541 edition, one of the first books to use a variant of the word encyclopedia in the title An encyclopedia or encyclopdia is a reference work or compendium providing summaries of knowledge from either all branches or from a particular field or discipline.[1] Encyclopedias are divided into articles or entries that are often arranged alphabetically by article name[2] and sometimes by thematic categories. Encyclopedia entries are longer and more detailed than those in most dictionaries.[2] Generally speaking, unlike dictionary entrieswhich focus on linguistic information about words, such as their etymology, meaning, pronunciation, use, and grammatical formsencyclopedia articles focus on factual information concerning the subject named in the article's title.[3][4][5][6] Encyclopedias have existed for around 2,000 years and have evolved considerably since that time as to language (written in a major international or a vernacular language), size (few or many volumes), intent (presentation of a global or a limited range of knowledge), cultural perceptions (authoritative, ideological, didactic, utilitarian), authorship (qualifications, style), readership (education level, background, interests, capabilities), and the technologies available for their production and distribution (hand-written manuscripts, small or large print runs, internet production). As a valued source of reliable information compiled by experts, printed versions found a prominent place in libraries, schools and other educational institutions. The appearance of digital and open-source versions in the 20th century has vastly expanded the accessibility, authorship, readership, and variety of encyclopedia entries and called into question the idea of what an encyclopedia is[citation needed] and the relevance of applying to such dynamic productions the traditional criteria for assembling and evaluating print encyclopedias.[citation needed] Contents 1 Etymology 1.1 Two Greek words misunderstood as one 1.2 Sixteenth century usage of the compounded word 1.3 The suffix -p(a)edia 1.4 Contemporary usage 2 Characteristics 3 History 3.1 Ancient times 3.2 Middle Ages 3.3 Renaissance 3.4 18th19th centuries 3.5 20th century 3.6 21st century 4 See also 5 Notes 6 References 7 External links Etymology Indeed, the purpose of an encyclopedia is to collect knowledge disseminated around the globe; to set forth its general system to the men with whom we live, and transmit it to those who will come after us, so that the work of preceding centuries will not become useless to the centuries to come; and so that our offspring, becoming better instructed, will at the same time become more virtuous and happy, and that we should not die without having rendered a service to the human race in the future years to come. Diderot[7] Two Greek words misunderstood as one The word encyclopedia comes from the Koine Greek ????????? ???????,[8] transliterated enkyklios paideia, meaning "general education" from enkyklios (?????????), meaning "circular, recurrent, required regularly, general"[9] and paideia (???????), meaning "education, rearing of a child"; together, the phrase literally translates as "complete instruction" or "complete knowledge".[10] However, the two separate words were reduced to a single word due to a scribal error[11] by copyists of a Latin manuscript edition of Quintillian in 1470.[12] The copyists took this phrase to be a single Greek word, enkyklopaidia, with the same meaning, and this spurious Greek word became the New Latin word "encyclopaedia", which in turn came into English. Because of this compounded word, fifteenth century readers and since have often, and incorrectly, thought that the Roman authors Quintillian and Pliny described an ancient genre.[13] Title page of Skalich's Encyclopaedia, seu orbis disciplinarum, tam sacrarum quam prophanarum, epistemon from 1559, first clear use of the word encyclopaedia in the title.[14] Sixteenth century usage of the compounded word In the sixteenth century there was a level of ambiguity as to how to use this new word. As several titles illustrate, there was not a settled notion about its spelling nor its status as a noun. For example: Jacobus Philomusus's Margarita philosophica encyclopaediam exhibens (1508); Johannes Aventinus's Encyclopedia orbisque doctrinarum, hoc est omnium artium, scientiarum, ipsius philosophiae index ac divisio; Joachimus Fortius Ringelbergius's Lucubrationes vel potius absolutissima kyklopaideia (1538, 1541); Paul Skalich's Encyclopaediae sen orbis disciplinarum epistemon (1559); Gregor Reisch's Margarita philosophica (1503, retitled Encyclopaedia in 1583); and Samuel Eisenmenger's Cyclopaedia Paracelsica (1585).[15] It is only with Pavao Skali? and his Encyclopediae seu orbis disciplinarum tam sacrarum quam profanarum epistemon (Encyclopaedia, or Knowledge of the World of Disciplines, Basel, 1559) that the term became first recognized as a noun.[citation needed] There have been two examples of the oldest vernacular use of the compounded word. In approximately 1490, Franciscus Puccius wrote a letter to Politianus thanking him for his Miscellanea, calling it an encyclopedia.[16] More commonly, Franois Rabelais is cited for his use of the term in Pantagruel (1532).[17][18] The suffix -p(a)edia Several encyclopedias have names that include the suffix -p(a)edia, to mark the text as belonging to the genre of encyclopedias. For example, Banglapedia (on matters relevant for Bangladesh). Contemporary usage Today in English, the word is most commonly spelled encyclopedia, though encyclopaedia (from encyclopdia) is also used in Britain.[19] Characteristics The modern encyclopedia was developed from the dictionary in the 18th century. Historically, both encyclopedias and dictionaries have been researched and written by well-educated, well-informed content experts, but they are significantly different in structure. A dictionary is a linguistic work which primarily focuses on alphabetical listing of words and their definitions. Synonymous words and those related by the subject matter are to be found scattered around the dictionary, giving no obvious place for in-depth treatment. Thus, a dictionary typically provides limited information, analysis or background for the word defined. While it may offer a definition, it may leave the reader lacking in understanding the meaning, significance or limitations of a term, and how the term relates to a broader field of knowledge. An encyclopedia is, theoretically, not written in order to convince, although one of its goals is indeed to convince its reader of its own veracity. To address those needs, an encyclopedia article is typically not limited to simple definitions, and is not limited to defining an individual word, but provides a more extensive meaning for a subject or discipline. In addition to defining and listing synonymous terms for the topic, the article is able to treat the topic's more extensive meaning in more depth and convey the most relevant accumulated knowledge on that subject. An encyclopedia article also often includes many maps and illustrations, as well as bibliography and statistics. Four major elements define an encyclopedia: its subject matter, its scope, its method of organization, and its method of production: Encyclopedias can be general, containing articles on topics in every field (the English-language Encyclopdia Britannica and German Brockhaus are well-known examples). General encyclopedias may contain guides on how to do a variety of things, as well as embedded dictionaries and gazetteers.[citation needed] There are also encyclopedias that cover a wide variety of topics from a particular cultural, ethnic, or national perspective, such as the Great Soviet Encyclopedia or Encyclopaedia Judaica. Works of encyclopedic scope aim to convey the important accumulated knowledge for their subject domain, such as an encyclopedia of medicine, philosophy, or law. Works vary in the breadth of material and the depth of discussion, depending on the target audience. Some systematic method of organization is essential to making an encyclopedia usable for reference. There have historically been two main methods of organizing printed encyclopedias: the alphabetical method (consisting of a number of separate articles, organized in alphabetical order) and organization by hierarchical categories. The former method is today the more common, especially for general works. The fluidity of electronic media, however, allows new possibilities for multiple methods of organization of the same content. Further, electronic media offer new capabilities for search, indexing and cross reference. The epigraph from Horace on the title page of the 18th century Encyclopdie suggests the importance of the structure of an encyclopedia: "What grace may be added to commonplace matters by the power of order and connection." As modern multimedia and the information age have evolved, new methods have emerged for the collection, verification, summation, and presentation of information of all kinds. Projects such as Everything2, Encarta, h2g2, and Wikipedia are examples of new forms of the encyclopedia as information retrieval becomes simpler. The method of production for an encyclopedia historically has been supported in both for-profit and non-profit contexts. The Great Soviet Encyclopedia mentioned above was entirely state sponsored, while the Britannica was supported as a for-profit institution. By comparison, Wikipedia is supported by volunteers contributing in a non-profit environment under the organization of the Wikimedia Foundation. Some works entitled "dictionaries" are actually similar to encyclopedias, especially those concerned with a particular field (such as the Dictionary of the Middle Ages, the Dictionary of American Naval Fighting Ships, and Black's Law Dictionary). The Macquarie Dictionary, Australia's national dictionary, became an encyclopedic dictionary after its first edition in recognition of the use of proper nouns in common communication, and the words derived from such proper nouns. There are some broad differences between encyclopedias and dictionaries. Most noticeably, encyclopedia articles are longer, fuller and more thorough than entries in most general-purpose dictionaries.[2][20] There are differences in content as well. Generally speaking, dictionaries provide linguistic information about words themselves, while encyclopedias focus more on the thing for which those words stand.[3][4][5][6] Thus, while dictionary entries are inextricably fixed to the word described, encyclopedia articles can be given a different entry name. As such, dictionary entries are not fully translatable into other languages, but encyclopedia articles can be.[3] In practice, however, the distinction is not concrete, as there is no clear-cut difference between factual, "encyclopedic" information and linguistic information such as appears in dictionaries.[5][20][21] Thus encyclopedias may contain material that is also found in dictionaries, and vice versa.[21] In particular, dictionary entries often contain factual information about the thing named by the word.[20][21] History Main article: History of encyclopedias Encyclopedias have progressed from written form in antiquity, to print in modern times. Today they can also be distributed and displayed electronically. Ancient times Naturalis Histori, 1669 edition, title page One of the earliest encyclopedic works to have survived to modern times is the Naturalis Historia of Pliny the Elder, a Roman statesman living in the first century AD. He compiled a work of 37 chapters covering natural history, architecture, medicine, geography, geology, and other aspects of the world around him. He stated in the preface that he had compiled 20,000 facts from 2000 works by over 200 authors, and added many others from his own experience. The work was published around AD 7779, although Pliny probably never finished editing the work before his death in the eruption of Vesuvius in AD 79.[22] Middle Ages Isidore of Seville, one of the greatest scholars of the early Middle Ages, is widely recognized for writing the first encyclopedia of the Middle Ages, the Etymologiae (The Etymologies) or Origines (around 630), in which he compiled a sizable portion of the learning available at his time, both ancient and contemporary. The work has 448 chapters in 20 volumes, and is valuable because of the quotes and fragments of texts by other authors that would have been lost had he not collected them. The most popular encyclopedia of the Carolingian Age was the De universo or De rerum naturis by Rabanus Maurus, written about 830; it was based on Etymologiae.[citation needed] The encyclopedia of Suda, a massive 10th-century Byzantine encyclopedia, had 30 000 entries, many drawing from ancient sources that have since been lost, and often derived from medieval Christian compilers. The text was arranged alphabetically with some slight deviations from common vowel order and place in the Greek alphabet. The early Muslim compilations of knowledge in the Middle Ages included many comprehensive works. Around year 960, the Brethren of Purity of Basra were engaged in their Encyclopedia of the Brethren of Purity.[23] Notable works include Abu Bakr al-Razi's encyclopedia of science, the Mutazilite Al-Kindi's prolific output of 270 books, and Ibn Sina's medical encyclopedia, which was a standard reference work for centuries. Also notable are works of universal history (or sociology) from Asharites, al-Tabri, al-Masudi, Tabari's History of the Prophets and Kings, Ibn Rustah, al-Athir, and Ibn Khaldun, whose Muqadimmah contains cautions regarding trust in written records that remain wholly applicable today. The enormous encyclopedic work in China of the Four Great Books of Song, compiled by the 11th century AD during the early Song dynasty (9601279), was a massive literary undertaking for the time. The last encyclopedia of the four, the Prime Tortoise of the Record Bureau, amounted to 9.4 million Chinese characters in 1000 written volumes. The 'period of the encyclopedists' spanned from the tenth to seventeenth centuries, during which the government of China employed hundreds of scholars to assemble massive encyclopedias.[24] The largest of which is the Yongle Encyclopedia; it was completed in 1408 and consisted of almost 23,000 folio volumes in manuscript form.[24] In late medieval Europe, several authors had the ambition of compiling the sum of human knowledge in a certain field or overall, for example Bartholomew of England, Vincent of Beauvais, Radulfus Ardens, Sydrac, Brunetto Latini, Giovanni da Sangiminiano, Pierre Bersuire. Some were women, like Hildegard of Bingen and Herrad of Landsberg. The most successful of those publications were the Speculum maius (Great Mirror) of Vincent of Beauvais and the De proprietatibus rerum (On the Properties of Things) by Bartholomew of England. The latter was translated (or adapted) into French, Provenal, Italian, English, Flemish, Anglo-Norman, Spanish, and German during the Middle Ages. Both were written in the middle of the 13th century. No medieval encyclopedia bore the title Encyclopaedia  they were often called On nature (De natura, De naturis rerum), Mirror (Speculum maius, Speculum universale), Treasure (Trsor).[25] Renaissance Anatomy in Margarita Philosophica, 1565 Medieval encyclopedias were all hand-copied and thus available mostly to wealthy patrons or monastic men of learning; they were expensive, and usually written for those extending knowledge rather than those using it.[26] During the Renaissance, the creation of printing allowed a wider diffusion of encyclopedias and every scholar could have his or her own copy. The De expetendis et fugiendis rebus by Giorgio Valla was posthumously printed in 1501 by Aldo Manuzio in Venice. This work followed the traditional scheme of liberal arts. However, Valla added the translation of ancient Greek works on mathematics (firstly by Archimedes), newly discovered and translated. The Margarita Philosophica by Gregor Reisch, printed in 1503, was a complete encyclopedia explaining the seven liberal arts. The term encyclopaedia was coined by 16th-century humanists who misread copies of their texts of Pliny and Quintilian, and combined the two Greek words "enkyklios paideia" into one word, ??????????????.[27] The phrase enkyklios paideia (????????? ???????) was used by Plutarch and the Latin word Encyclopedia came from him. The first work titled in this way was the Encyclopedia orbisque doctrinarum, hoc est omnium artium, scientiarum, ipsius philosophiae index ac divisio written by Johannes Aventinus in 1517.[citation needed] The English physician and philosopher, Sir Thomas Browne used the word 'encyclopaedia' in 1646 in the preface to the reader to define his Pseudodoxia Epidemica, a major work of the 17th-century scientific revolution. Browne structured his encyclopaedia upon the time-honoured scheme of the Renaissance, the so-called 'scale of creation' which ascends through the mineral, vegetable, animal, human, planetary, and cosmological worlds. Pseudodoxia Epidemica was a European best-seller, translated into French, Dutch, and German as well as Latin it went through no fewer than five editions, each revised and augmented, the last edition appearing in 1672. Financial, commercial, legal, and intellectual factors changed the size of encyclopedias. During the Renaissance, middle classes had more time to read and encyclopedias helped them to learn more. Publishers wanted to increase their output so some countries like Germany started selling books missing alphabetical sections, to publish faster. Also, publishers could not afford all the resources by themselves, so multiple publishers would come together with their resources to create better encyclopedias. When publishing at the same rate became financially impossible, they turned to subscriptions and serial publications. This was risky for publishers because they had to find people that would pay all upfront or make payments. When this worked, capital would rise and there would be a steady income for encyclopedias. Later, rivalry grew, causing copyright to occur due to weak underdeveloped laws. Some publishers would copy another publishers work to produce an encyclopedia faster and cheaper so consumers did not have to pay a lot and they would sell more. Encyclopedias made it to where middle-class citizens could basically have a small library in their own house. Europeans were becoming more curious about their society around them causing them to revolt against their government.[28] 18th19th centuries Encyclopdie, 1773 The beginnings of the modern idea of the general-purpose, widely distributed printed encyclopedia precede the 18th century encyclopedists. However, Chambers' Cyclopaedia, or Universal Dictionary of Arts and Sciences (1728), and the Encyclopdie of Denis Diderot and Jean le Rond d'Alembert (1751 onwards), as well as Encyclopdia Britannica and the Conversations-Lexikon, were the first to realize the form we would recognize today, with a comprehensive scope of topics, discussed in depth and organized in an accessible, systematic method. Chambers, in 1728, followed the earlier lead of John Harris's Lexicon Technicum of 1704 and later editions (see also below); this work was by its title and content "A Universal English Dictionary of Arts and Sciences: Explaining not only the Terms of Art, but the Arts Themselves". During the 19th and early 20th century, many smaller or less developed languages[which?] saw their first encyclopedias, using French, German, and English role models. While encyclopedias in larger languages, having large markets that could support a large editorial staff, churned out new 20-volume works in a few years and new editions with brief intervals, such publication plans often spanned a decade or more in smaller languages.[citation needed] 20th century Popular and affordable encyclopedias such as Harmsworth's Universal Encyclopaedia and the Children's Encyclopaedia appeared in the early 1920s. In the United States, the 1950s and 1960s saw the introduction of several large popular encyclopedias, often sold on installment plans. The best known of these were World Book and Funk and Wagnalls. 1913 advertisement for Encyclopdia Britannica, the oldest and one of the largest contemporary English encyclopedias The second half of the 20th century also saw the proliferation of specialized encyclopedias that compiled topics in specific fields. This trend has continued. Encyclopedias of at least one volume in size now exist for most if not all academic disciplines, including such narrow topics such as bioethics. By the late 20th century, encyclopedias were being published on CD-ROMs for use with personal computers. Microsoft's Encarta, published between 1993 and 2009, was a landmark example as it had no printed equivalent. Articles were supplemented with both video and audio files as well as numerous high-quality images.[29] 21st century In 2001, Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger launched Wikipedia, a multilingual, open-source, free online encyclopedia supported by the non-profit Wikimedia Foundation. Unlike commercial online encyclopedias such as Britannica Online, which are written by experts, Wikipedia is collaboratively edited by volunteers. As of 4 March 2019, there are 5,817,645 articles in the English Wikipedia. There are 287 different editions of Wikipedia. As of February 2014, it had 18 billion page views and nearly 500 million unique visitors each month.[30] Wikipedia has more than 25 million accounts, out of which there were over 118,000 active editors globally, as of August 2015. A study by Nature in 2005 found that Wikipedia's science articles were roughly comparable in accuracy to those of Encyclopdia Britannica, containing the same number of serious errors and about 1/3 more minor factual inaccuracies, but Wikipedia's writing tended to be confusing and less readable.[31] Encyclopdia Britannica denied the study's conclusions, deeming the study fatally flawed.[32] Many academics, historians, teachers, and journalists reject Wikipedia as a reliable source of information, and Wikipedia is itself not a reliable source according to its own standards because of its openly editable wiki model.[33] Critics argue Wikipedia exhibits systemic bias.[34][35] Wikipedia is by far the largest web-based encyclopedia, but it is not the only one in existence. There are several much smaller, usually more specialized, encyclopedias on various themes, sometimes dedicated to a specific geographic region or time period.[36] One example is the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. See also Bibliography of encyclopedias Biographical dictionary Encyclopedic knowledge Encyclopedism Fictitious entry History of science and technology Lexicography Library science Lists of encyclopedias Thesaurus Speculum literature  The template Subject bar is being considered for deletion.  Portals Access related topics Literature portal Library and information science portal Education portal Notes ^ "Encyclopedia". Archived from the original on August 3, 2007. Glossary of Library Terms. Riverside City College, Digital Library/Learning Resource Center. Retrieved on: November 17, 2007. ^ a b c Hartmann, R. R. K.; James, Gregory; James, Gregory (1998). Dictionary of Lexicography. Routledge. p. 48. ISBN 978-0-415-14143-7. Retrieved July 27, 2010. ^ a b c Bjoint, Henri (2000). Modern Lexicography, pp. 3031. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-829951-6 ^ a b "Encyclopaedia". Encyclopdia Britannica. Retrieved July 27, 2010. An English lexicographer, H.W. Fowler, wrote in the preface to the first edition (1911) of The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Current English language that a dictionary is concerned with the uses of words and phrases and with giving information about the things for which they stand only so far as current use of the words depends upon knowledge of those things. The emphasis in an encyclopedia is much more on the nature of the things for which the words and phrases stand. ^ a b c Hartmann, R. R. K.; Gregory, James (1998). Dictionary of Lexicography. Routledge. p. 49. ISBN 978-0-415-14143-7. Retrieved July 27, 2010. In contrast with linguistic information, encyclopedia material is more concerned with the description of objective realities than the words or phrases that refer to them. In practice, however, there is no hard and fast boundary between factual and lexical knowledge. ^ a b Cowie, Anthony Paul (2009). The Oxford History of English Lexicography, Volume I. Oxford University Press. p. 22. ISBN 978-0-415-14143-7. Retrieved August 17, 2010. An 'encyclopedia' (encyclopaedia) usually gives more information than a dictionary; it explains not only the words but also the things and concepts referred to by the words. ^ Denis Diderot and Jean le Rond d'Alembert Encyclopdie. University of Michigan Library:Scholarly Publishing Office and DLXS. Retrieved on: November 17, 2007 ^ ????????? ???????, Quintilian, Institutio Oratoria, 1.10.1, at Perseus Project ^ ?????????, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A GreekEnglish Lexicon, at Perseus Project ^ ???????, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A GreekEnglish Lexicon, at Perseus Project ^ According to some accounts, such as the American Heritage Dictionary, copyists of Latin manuscripts took this phrase to be a single Greek word, ?????????????? enkyklopaidia. ^ Franklin-Brown, Mary (2012). Reading the world : encyclopedic writing in the scholastic age. Chicago London: The University of Chicago Press. p. 8. ISBN 9780226260709. ^ Knig, Jason (2013). Encyclopaedism from antiquity to the Renaissance. New York: Cambridge University Press. p. 1. ISBN 978-1-107-03823-3. ^ Yeo, Richard (2001). Encyclopaedic visions : scientific dictionaries and enlightenment culture. Cambridge New York: Cambridge University Press. p. 6. ISBN 978-0521152921. ^ Harris-McCoy, Daniel (2008). Varieties of encyclopedism in the early Roman Empire: Vitruvius, Pliny the Elder, Artemidorus (Ph.D). University of Pennsylvania. p. 12. Retrieved January 18, 2018. ^ Harris-McCoy 2008, p. 1112. ^ Roest, Bert (1997). "Compilation as Theme and Praxis in Franciscan Universal Chronicles". In Peter Binkley. Pre-Modern Encyclopaedic Texts: Proceedings of the Second Comers Congress, Groningen, 1  July 4, 1996. BRILL. p. 213. ISBN 90-04-10830-0. ^ Carey, Sorcha (2003). "Two Strategies of Encyclopaedism". Pliny's Catalogue of Culture: Art and Empire in the Natural History. Oxford University Press. p. 17. ISBN 978-0-19-925913-7. ^ "encyclopaedia" (online). Oxford English Dictionary (OED.com), Oxford University Press. Retrieved February 18, 2012. ^ a b c Hartmann, R. R. K.; James, Gregory; James, Gregory (1998). Encyclopedic definition. Dictionary of Lexicography. Routledge. pp. 4849. ISBN 978-0-415-14143-7. Retrieved July 27, 2010. Usually these two aspects overlap  encyclopedic information being difficult to distinguish from linguistic information  and dictionaries attempt to capture both in the explanation of a meaning... ^ a b c Bjoint, Henri (2000). Modern Lexicography. Oxford University Press. p. 31. ISBN 978-0-19-829951-6. The two types, as we have seen, are not easily differentiated; encyclopedias contain information that is also to be found in dictionaries, and vice versa. ^ Naturalis Historia ^ P.D. Wightman (1953), The Growth of Scientific Ideas ^ a b 1948-, Murray, Stuart (2009). The library : an illustrated history. New York, NY: Skyhorse Pub. ISBN 9781602397064. OCLC 277203534. ^ Monique Paulmier-Foucart, "Medieval Encyclopaedias", in Andr Vauchez (ed.), Encyclopedia of the Middle Ages, James Clarke & Co, 2002. ^ See "Encyclopedia" in Dictionary of the Middle Ages. ^ ??????????????, Henry George Liddell, Robert Scott, A GreekEnglish Lexicon, at Perseus Project: "f. l. [= falsa lectio, Latin for "false reading"] for ????????? ???????" ^ Loveland, J. (2012). "Why Encyclopedias Got Bigger  and Smaller". Information & Culture. 47 (2): 233254. doi:10.1353/lac.2012.0012. ^ Important Notice: MSN Encarta to be Discontinued. MSN Encarta. Archived from the original on October 31, 2009. ^ Cohen, Noam (February 9, 2014). "Wikipedia vs. the Small Screen". New York Times. ^ Giles, Jim (December 2005). "Internet encyclopedias go head to head". Nature. 438 (7070): 900901. Bibcode:2005Natur.438..900G. doi:10.1038/438900a. PMID 16355180. (subscription required) Note: The study was cited in several news articles; e.g.: "Wikipedia survives research test". BBC News. December 15, 2005. ^ "Fatally Flawed: Refuting the recent study on encyclopedic accuracy by the journal Nature" (PDF). Encyclopdia Britannica, Inc. March 2006. Retrieved January 17, 2018. ^ Sidener, Jonathan (September 23, 2006). "Wikipedia co-founder looks to add accountability, end anarchy". The San Diego Union-Tribune. Retrieved January 16, 2017. ^ Reagle, Joseph; Rhue, Lauren (2011-08-08). "Gender Bias in Wikipedia and Britannica". International Journal of Communication. 5: 21. ISSN 1932-8036. Retrieved 2018-11-01. ^ Holloway, Todd; Bozicevic, Miran; Brner, Katy (2007). "Analyzing and visualizing the semantic coverage of Wikipedia and its authors". Complexity. 12 (3): 3040. arXiv:cs/0512085. Bibcode:2007Cmplx..12c..30H. doi:10.1002/cplx.20164. ^ Sideris A., "The Encyclopedic Concept in the Web Era", in Ioannides M., Arnold D., Niccolucci F. and K. Mania (eds.), The e-volution of Information Communication Technology in Cultural Heritage. Where Hi-Tech Touches the Past: Risks and Challenges for the 21st Century. VAST 2006, Epoch, Budapest 2006, pp. 192-197. ISBN 963-8046-74-0. References EtymologyOnline "Encyclopaedia". Encyclopdia Britannica. Retrieved July 27, 2010. Bjoint, Henri (2000). Modern Lexicography. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-829951-6. C. Codoner, S. Louis, M. Paulmier-Foucart, D. He, M. Salvat, A. Llinares, L'Encyclopdisme. Actes du Colloque de Caen, A. Becq (dir.), Paris, 1991. Bergenholtz, H.; Nielsen, S.; Tarp, S., eds. (2009). Lexicography at a Crossroads: Dictionaries and Encyclopedias Today, Lexicographical Tools Tomorrow. Peter Lang. ISBN 978-3-03911-799-4. Blom, Phillip (2004). Enlightening the World: Encyclopdie, the Book that Changed the Course of History. New York; Basingstoke: Palgrave Macmillan. ISBN 978-1-4039-6895-1. OCLC 57669780. Collison, Robert Lewis (1966). Encyclopaedias: Their History Throughout the Ages (2nd ed.). New York, London: Hafner. OCLC 220101699. Cowie, Anthony Paul (2009). The Oxford History of English Lexicography, Volume I. Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-415-14143-7. Retrieved August 17, 2010. Darnton, Robert (1979). The business of enlightenment : a publishing history of the Encyclopdie, 17751800. Cambridge: Belknap Press. ISBN 978-0-674-08785-9. Hartmann, R. R. K.; James, Gregory; James, Gregory (1998). Dictionary of Lexicography. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-415-14143-7. Retrieved July 27, 2010. Kafker, Frank A., ed. (1981). Notable encyclopedias of the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries: nine predecessors of the Encyclopdie. Oxford: Voltaire Foundation. ISBN 978-0-7294-0256-9. OCLC 10645788. Kafker, Frank A., ed. (1994). Notable encyclopedias of the late eighteenth century: eleven successors of the Encyclopdie. Oxford: Voltaire Foundation. ISBN 978-0-7294-0467-9. OCLC 30787125. Needham, Joseph (1986). "Part 7, Military Technology; the Gunpowder Epic". Science and Civilization in China. 5  Chemistry and Chemical Technology. Taipei: Caves Books Ltd. ISBN 978-0-521-30358-3. OCLC 59245877. Rosenzweig, Roy (June 2006). "Can History Be Open Source? Wikipedia and the Future of the Past". Journal of American History. 93 (1): 11746. doi:10.2307/4486062. ISSN 1945-2314. JSTOR 4486062. Archived from the original on April 25, 2010. Sideris, Athanasios (2006). "The Encyclopedic Concept in the Web Era", in Ioannides M., Arnold D., Niccolucci F. and K. Mania (eds.), The e-volution of Information Communication Technology in Cultural Heritage. Where Hi-Tech Touches the Past: Risks and Challenges for the 21st Century. VAST 2006, Epoch, Budapest, pp. 192197. ISBN 963-8046-74-0. Walsh, S. Padraig (1968). Anglo-American general encyclopedias: a historical bibliography, 17031967. New York: Bowker. p. 270. OCLC 577541. Yeo, Richard R. (2001). Encyclopaedic visions : scientific dictionaries and enlightenment culture. Cambridge, New York: Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-65191-2. OCLC 45828872. External links Look up encyclopedia, encyclopaedia, or encyclopedic in Wiktionary, the free dictionary. Wikimedia Commons has media related to Encyclopedias. Wikisource has original works on the topic: Encyclopedias Encyclopaedia and Hypertext Internet Accuracy Project  Biographical errors in encyclopedias and almanacs Encyclopedia  Diderot's article on the Encyclopedia from the original Encyclopdie. De expetendis et fugiendis rebus  First Renaissance encyclopedia Errors and inconsistencies in several printed reference books and encyclopedias Archived July 18, 2001, at the Wayback Machine Digital encyclopedias put the world at your fingertips  CNET article Encyclopedias online University of Wisconsin  Stout listing by category Chambers' Cyclopaedia, 1728, with the 1753 supplement Encyclopdia Americana, 1851, Francis Lieber ed. (Boston: Mussey & Co.) at the University of Michigan Making of America site Encyclopdia Britannica, articles and illustrations from 9th ed., 187589, and 10th ed., 190203. Texts on Wikisource: "Cyclopdia" . Collier's New Encyclopedia. 1921. "Encyclopdia" . Encyclopedia Americana. 1920. "Encyclopdia" . The New Student's Reference Work . 1914. "Encyclopaedia" . Encyclopdia Britannica (11th ed.). 1911. "Encyclopdia" . The Nuttall Encyclopdia. 1907. "Encyclopdia" . New International Encyclopedia. 1905. "Cyclopdia" . The American Cyclopdia. 1879. Authority control BNF: cb12043290b (data) GND: 4014986-9 LCCN: sh99001614 NDL: 00563841 Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Encyclopedia&oldid=881034384" Categories: Encyclopedias Works about history Hidden categories: Pages containing links to subscription-only content Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages Use mdy dates from February 2016 All articles with unsourced statements Articles with unsourced statements from March 2018 Articles containing Ancient Greek-language text Articles containing Latin-language text Articles with unsourced statements from February 2018 Articles with unsourced statements from February 2010 Articles with unsourced statements from January 2015 Articles with unsourced statements from February 2012 All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from December 2014 Articles with unsourced statements from December 2014 CS1: long volume value Commons category link is on Wikidata Webarchive template wayback links Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from Collier's Encyclopedia Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the Encyclopedia Americana with a Wikisource reference Wikipedia articles incorporating citation to the NSRW Wikipedia articles incorporating citation to the NSRW with an wstitle parameter Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the Nuttall Encyclopedia Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the New International Encyclopedia Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from The American Cyclopaedia Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from The American Cyclopaedia with a Wikisource reference Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers Wikipedia articles with NDL identifiers Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Languages Afrikaans Akan Alemannisch ???? nglisc ??????? Aragons Armneashti ??????? Asturianu ???? Az?rbaycanca ?????? Bamanankan ????? Bahasa Banjar Bn-lm-g Basa Banyumasan ????????? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? ??????? ????????? Boarisch Bosanski Brezhoneg Catal ??????? Cebuano ?etina Chi-Chewa Cymraeg Dansk Deitsch Deutsch ?????????? Din bizaad Dolnoserbski ?????? Eesti ???????? Emilin e rumagnl Espaol Esperanto Euskara ????? Fiji Hindi Froyskt Franais Frysk Fulfulde Gaeilge Gidhlig Galego ???????? ?? ??????? ???/Hak-k-ng ??? Hausa Hawai?i ??????? ?????? Hornjoserbsce Hrvatski Ido Ilokano ????????????? ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Interlingua ???? slenska Italiano ????? Basa Jawa Kab?y? Kalaallisut ????? ????????-??????? ??????? ????? / ????? Kaszbsczi ??????? Kernowek Kiswahili Kreyl ayisyen Kurd ???????? Ladino ????? ??? Latga?u Latina Latvieu Ltzebuergesch Lietuvi? Limburgs Lumbaart Magyar ?????????? Malagasy ?????? Malti ????? ????????? ???? ???????? Bahasa Melayu Baso Minangkabau Mng-d??ng-ng?? Mirands ?????? ?????????? N?huatl Nederlands Nedersaksies ?????? ??? Napulitano ??????? Norsk Norsk nynorsk Nouormand Occitan ???? ????? ????? O?zbekcha/??????? ?????? ?????? Papiamentu ???? ????????? Tok Pisin Plattdtsch Polski ???????? Portugus Ripoarisch Romn? ?????????? ??????? ???? ???? ????????? Sardu Scots Seeltersk Shqip Sicilianu ????? Simple English ???? Sloven?ina Sloven?ina ?????????? / ?????????? ?l?nski ????? ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? ????????? Basa Sunda Suomi Svenska Tagalog ????? Tarandne ???????/tatara ?????? ??? ?????? Trke ?????????? ???? ???????? / Uyghurche Vneto Ti?ng Vi?t Volapk Walon ?? Winaray Wolof ?? Xitsonga ?????? ?? Zazaki emait?ka ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 31 January 2019, at 01:03 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
=======
Portal:Biography - Wikipedia
Portal:Biography From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Portal maintenance status: (June 2018) This portal's subpages should be checked. Subpages that are no longer needed should be reported here. Please take care when editing, especially if using automated editing software. Learn how to update the maintenance information here. Wikipedia's portal for exploring content related to Biography Portal topics Activities Culture Geography Health History Mathematics Nature People Philosophy Religion Society Technology Random portal Introduction Third Volume of a 1727 edition of Plutarch's Lives of the Noble Greeks and Romans printed by Jacob Tonson A biography, or simply bio, is a detailed description of a person's life. It involves more than just the basic facts like education, work, relationships, and death; it portrays a person's experience of these life events. Unlike a profile or curriculum vitae (rsum), a biography presents a subject's life story, highlighting various aspects of his or her life, including intimate details of experience, and may include an analysis of the subject's personality. Biographical works are usually non-fiction, but fiction can also be used to portray a person's life. One in-depth form of biographical coverage is called legacy writing. Works in diverse media, from literature to film, form the genre known as biography. An authorized biography is written with the permission, cooperation, and at times, participation of a subject or a subject's heirs. An autobiography is written by the person himself or herself, sometimes with the assistance of a collaborator or ghostwriter. Read more Refresh with new selections below (purge) Selected biographies Alexander Frederick Douglas-Home, Baron Home of the Hirsel, KT, PC (/?hju?m/ (listen); 2 July 1903  9 October 1995) was a British Conservative politician who served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from October 1963 to October 1964. He was the last Prime Minister to hold office while a member of the House of Lords, before renouncing his peerage and taking up a seat in the House of Commons for the remainder of his premiership. His reputation, however, rests more on his two spells as Britain's foreign minister than on his brief premiership. The eldest child of Charles Douglas-Home, Lord Dunglass, he was educated at Ludgrove School, Eton College and Christ Church, Oxford. A talented cricketer, he played first-class cricket at club and county level; he began serving in the Territorial Army from 1924. Douglas-Home (under the courtesy title Lord Dunglass) entered Parliament in 1931 and served as the parliamentary aide to Neville Chamberlain, although his diagnosis in 1940 with spinal tuberculosis would immobilise him for two years. Having recovered enough to resume his political career, Douglas-Home lost his seat in the 1945 general election. He regained it in 1950, but left the Commons the following year when, on the death of his father, he entered the Lords as the 14th Earl of Home. Under the next Conservative government, Home was appointed to increasingly senior posts, such as Leader of the House of Lords and Foreign Secretary. In the latter post (19601963) he supported United States resolve in the Cuban Missile Crisis and was the UK signatory of the Partial Nuclear Test Ban Treaty in August 1963. Read more... Conrad in 1904 by George Charles Beresford Joseph Conrad (Polish: [?juz??f ?k?n.rad]; born Jzef Teodor Konrad Korzeniowski; 3 December 1857  3 August 1924) was a Polish-British writer regarded as one of the greatest novelists to write in the English language. Though he did not speak English fluently until his twenties, he was a master prose stylist who brought a non-English sensibility into English literature. Conrad wrote stories and novels, many with a nautical setting, that depict trials of the human spirit in the midst of what he saw as an impassive, inscrutable universe. Conrad is considered an early modernist, though his works contain elements of 19th-century realism. His narrative style and anti-heroic characters have influenced numerous authors, and many films have been adapted from, or inspired by, his works. Numerous writers and critics have commented that Conrad's fictional works, written largely in the first two decades of the 20th century, seem to have anticipated later world events. Read more... Johannes Eugenius Blow Warming (3 November 1841  2 April 1924), known as Eugen Warming, was a Danish botanist and a main founding figure of the scientific discipline of ecology. Warming wrote the first textbook (1895) on plant ecology, taught the first university course in ecology and gave the concept its meaning and content. If one individual can be singled out to be honoured as the founder of ecology, Warming should gain precedence. Warming wrote a number of textbooks on botany, plant geography and ecology, which were translated to several languages and were immensely influential at their time and later. Most important were Plantesamfund and Haandbog i den systematiske Botanik. Read more... Edward Jenner oil painting Edward Jenner, FRS FRCPE (17 May 1749  26 January 1823) was an English physician and scientist who was the pioneer of smallpox vaccine, the world's first vaccine. The terms "vaccine" and "vaccination" are derived from Variolae vaccinae (smallpox of the cow), the term devised by Jenner to denote cowpox. He used it in 1796 in the long title of his Inquiry into the Variolae vaccinae known as the Cow Pox, in which he described the protective effect of cowpox against smallpox. Jenner is often called "the father of immunology", and his work is said to have "saved more lives than the work of any other human". In Jenner's time, smallpox killed around 10 percent of the population, with the number as high as 20 percent in towns and cities where infection spread more easily. In 1821 he was appointed physician extraordinary to King George IV, and was also made mayor of Berkeley and justice of the peace. A member of the Royal Society, in the field of zoology he was the first person to describe the brood parasitism of the cuckoo. In 2002, Jenner was named in the BBC's list of the 100 Greatest Britons. Read more... Annika Srenstam (pronounced [?an??ka s?r?n?stam] (listen); born 9 October 1970) is a retired Swedish American professional golfer. She is regarded as one of the best female golfers in history. Before stepping away from competitive golf at the end of the 2008 season, she had won 90 international tournaments as a professional, making her the female golfer with the most wins to her name. She has won 72 official LPGA tournaments including ten majors and 18 other tournaments internationally, and she tops the LPGA's career money list with earnings of over $22 millionover $2 million ahead of her nearest rival while playing 149 fewer events. Since 2006, Srenstam has held dual American and Swedish citizenship. The winner of a record eight Player of the Year awards, and six Vare Trophies given to the LPGA player with the lowest seasonal scoring average, she is the only female golfer to shoot a 59 in competition. She holds various all-time scoring records including the lowest season scoring average: 68.6969 in 2004. Read more... Abdulaziz ibn Abdul Rahman ibn Faisal ibn Turki ibn Abdullah ibn Muhammad Al Saud (Arabic: ??? ?????? ?? ??? ?????? ?? ?????, Abd al-'Az?z ibn 'Abd ar-Ra?man ?l Sa'?d; 15 January 1875  9 November 1953), usually known within the Arab world as Abdulaziz and in the West as Ibn Saud, was the first monarch and founder of Saudi Arabia, the "third Saudi state". He reconquered his family's ancestral home city of Riyadh in 1902, starting three decades of conquests that made him the ruler of nearly all of central Arabia. He consolidated his control over the Najd in 1922, then conquered the Hejaz in 1925. He extended his dominions into what later became the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia in 1932. As King, he presided over the discovery of petroleum in Saudi Arabia in 1938 and the beginning of large-scale oil production after World War II. He fathered many children, including 45 sons, and all of the subsequent kings of Saudi Arabia. Read more... Heiden in 2007 Eric Arthur Heiden (born June 14, 1958) is an American physician and a former long track speed skater, road cyclist and track cyclist. He won an unprecedented five individual gold medals, and set four Olympic records and one world record at the 1980 Winter Olympic Games. Heiden was the most successful athlete at those Olympic Games, single-handedly winning more gold medals than all nations except for the Soviet Union (10) and East Germany (9). He is the most successful Winter Olympian from a single edition of any Winter Olympics. He delivered the Athlete's Oath at those same 1980 Games. His coach was Dianne Holum. Heiden is an icon in the speed skating community. His victories are significant, as few speed skaters (and athletes in general) have won competitions in both sprint and long-distance events. Heiden is the only athlete in the history of speed skating to have won all five events in a single Olympic tournament and the only one to have won a gold medal in all events. He is considered by some to be the best overall speed skater (short and long distances) in the sport's history. Heiden ranked No. 46 in ESPN's SportsCentury 50 Greatest Athletes of the 20th Century in 1999, the only speed skater to make the list. In 2000, a Dutch newspaper called him the greatest skater ever. Read more... John Calvin (/?klv?n/; French: Jean Calvin [??? kalv??]; born Jehan Cauvin; 10 July 1509  27 May 1564) was a French theologian, pastor and reformer in Geneva during the Protestant Reformation. He was a principal figure in the development of the system of Christian theology later called Calvinism, aspects of which include the doctrines of predestination and of the absolute sovereignty of God in salvation of the human soul from death and eternal damnation, in which doctrines Calvin was influenced by and elaborated upon the Augustinian and other Christian traditions. Various Congregational, Reformed and Presbyterian churches, which look to Calvin as the chief expositor of their beliefs, have spread throughout the world. Calvin was a tireless polemic and apologetic writer who generated much controversy. He also exchanged cordial and supportive letters with many reformers, including Philipp Melanchthon and Heinrich Bullinger. In addition to his seminal Institutes of the Christian Religion, Calvin wrote commentaries on most books of the Bible, confessional documents, and various other theological treatises. Read more... Douglas MacArthur (January 26, 1880  April 5, 1964) was an American five-star general and Field Marshal of the Philippine Army. He was Chief of Staff of the United States Army during the 1930s and played a prominent role in the Pacific theater during World War II. He received the Medal of Honor for his service in the Philippines Campaign, which made him and his father Arthur MacArthur Jr. the first father and son to be awarded the medal. He was one of only five to rise to the rank of General of the Army in the US Army, and the only one conferred the rank of field marshal in the Philippine Army. Raised in a military family in the American Old West, MacArthur was valedictorian at the West Texas Military Academy, and First Captain at the United States Military Academy at West Point, where he graduated top of the class of 1903. During the 1914 United States occupation of Veracruz, he conducted a reconnaissance mission, for which he was nominated for the Medal of Honor. In 1917, he was promoted from major to colonel and became chief of staff of the 42nd (Rainbow) Division. In the fighting on the Western Front during World War I, he rose to the rank of brigadier general, was again nominated for a Medal of Honor, and was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross twice and the Silver Star seven times. Read more... Mary Anning with her dog, Tray, painted before 1842; the Golden Cap outcrop can be seen in the background Mary Anning (21 May 1799  9 March 1847) was an English fossil collector, dealer, and palaeontologist who became known around the world for important finds she made in Jurassic marine fossil beds in the cliffs along the English Channel at Lyme Regis in the county of Dorset in Southwest England. Her findings contributed to important changes in scientific thinking about prehistoric life and the history of the Earth. Anning searched for fossils in the area's Blue Lias cliffs, particularly during the winter months when landslides exposed new fossils that had to be collected quickly before they were lost to the sea. She nearly died in 1833 during a landslide that killed her dog, Tray. Her discoveries included the first ichthyosaur skeleton correctly identified; the first two more complete plesiosaur skeletons found; the first pterosaur skeleton located outside Germany; and important fish fossils. Her observations played a key role in the discovery that coprolites, known as bezoar stones at the time, were fossilised faeces. She also discovered that belemnite fossils contained fossilised ink sacs like those of modern cephalopods. When geologist Henry De la Beche painted Duria Antiquior, the first widely circulated pictorial representation of a scene from prehistoric life derived from fossil reconstructions, he based it largely on fossils Anning had found, and sold prints of it for her benefit. Read more... Stanford circa 1870 Amasa Leland Stanford (March 9, 1824  June 21, 1893) was an American tycoon, industrialist, politician, and the founder (with his wife, Jane) of Stanford University. Migrating to California from New York at the time of the Gold Rush, he became a successful merchant and wholesaler, and continued to build his business empire. He spent one two-year term as Governor of California after his election in 1861, and later eight years as a United States Senator. As president of Southern Pacific Railroad and, beginning in 1861, Central Pacific, he had tremendous power in the region and a lasting impact on California. He is widely considered a robber baron. Read more... Alexander II (Russian: ?????????? II ???????????, tr. Aleksandr II Nikolayevich, IPA: [?l???ksandr ft??roj n??k??laj?v??t?]; 29 April 1818  13 March 1881) was the Emperor of Russia from 2 March 1855 until his assassination on 13 March 1881. He was also the King of Poland and the Grand Duke of Finland. Alexander's most significant reform as Emperor was emancipation of Russia's serfs in 1861, for which he is known as Alexander the Liberator (Russian: ?????????? ?????????????, tr. Aleksandr Osvoboditel, IPA: [?l???ksandr ?sv?b??d?it??l?]). The tsar was responsible for other reforms, including reorganising the judicial system, setting up elected local judges, abolishing corporal punishment, promoting local self-government through the zemstvo system, imposing universal military service, ending some privileges of the nobility, and promoting university education. After an assassination attempt in 1866, Alexander adopted a somewhat more reactionary stance until his death. Read more... Sir Frank Macfarlane Burnet, OM AK KBE FRS FAA FRSNZ (3 September 1899  31 August 1985), usually known as Macfarlane or Mac Burnet, was an Australian virologist best known for his contributions to immunology. He won a Nobel Prize in 1960 for predicting acquired immune tolerance and was best known for developing the theory of clonal selection. Burnet received his Doctor of Medicine degree from the University of Melbourne in 1924, and his PhD from the University of London in 1928. He went on to conduct pioneering research in microbiology and immunology at the Walter and Eliza Hall Institute of Medical Research, Melbourne, and served as director of the Institute from 1944 to 1965. From 1965 until his retirement in 1978, Burnet worked at the University of Melbourne. Throughout his career he played an active role in the development of public policy for the medical sciences in Australia and was a founding member of the Australian Academy of Science (AAS), and served as its president from 1965 to 1969. Read more... Rivera pitching for the Yankees in 2007 Mariano Rivera (born November 29, 1969) is a Panamanian-American former professional baseball pitcher who played 19 seasons in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the New York Yankees, from 1995 to 2013. Nicknamed "Mo" and "Sandman", he spent most of his career as a relief pitcher and served as the Yankees' closer for 17 seasons. A thirteen-time All-Star and five-time World Series champion, he is MLB's career leader in saves (652) and games finished (952). Rivera won five American League (AL) Rolaids Relief Man Awards and three Delivery Man of the Year Awards, and he finished in the top three in voting for the AL Cy Young Award four times. He was elected to the Baseball Hall of Fame in its class of 2019 in his first year of eligibility, becoming the first player ever to be elected unanimously by the Baseball Writers' Association of America (BBWAA). Raised in the modest Panamanian fishing village of Puerto Caimito, Rivera was an amateur player until signed by the Yankees organization in 1990. He debuted in the major leagues in 1995 as a starting pitcher, before permanently converting to a relief pitcher late in his rookie year. After a breakthrough season in 1996 as a setup man, he became the Yankees' closer in 1997. In the following seasons, he established himself as one of baseball's top relievers, leading the major leagues in saves in 1999, 2001, and 2004. Rivera primarily threw a sharp-moving, mid-90s mile-per-hour cut fastball that frequently broke hitters' bats and earned a reputation as one of the league's toughest pitches to hit. With his presence at the end of games, signaled by his foreboding entrance song "Enter Sandman", Rivera was a key contributor to the Yankees' success in the late 1990s and early 2000s. An accomplished postseason performer, he was named the 1999 World Series Most Valuable Player (MVP) and the 2003 AL Championship Series MVP, and he holds several postseason records, including lowest earned run average (ERA) (0.70) and most saves (42). Read more... Winfield Scott Hancock (February 14, 1824  February 9, 1886) was a career U.S. Army officer and the Democratic nominee for President of the United States in 1880. He served with distinction in the Army for four decades, including service in the MexicanAmerican War and as a Union general in the American Civil War. Known to his Army colleagues as "Hancock the Superb", he was noted in particular for his personal leadership at the Battle of Gettysburg in 1863. One military historian wrote, "No other Union general at Gettysburg dominated men by the sheer force of their presence more completely than Hancock." As another wrote, "his tactical skill had won him the quick admiration of adversaries who had come to know him as the 'Thunderbolt of the Army of the Potomac'." His military service continued after the Civil War, as Hancock participated in the military Reconstruction of the South and the Army's presence at the Western frontier. Hancock's reputation as a war hero at Gettysburg, combined with his status as a Unionist and supporter of states' rights, made him a potential presidential candidate. His noted integrity was a counterpoint to the corruption of the era, for as President Rutherford B. Hayes said, If, when we make up our estimate of a public man, conspicuous both as a soldier and in civil life, we are to think first and chiefly of his manhood, his integrity, his purity, his singleness of purpose, and his unselfish devotion to duty, we can truthfully say of Hancock that he was through and through pure gold. When the Democrats nominated him for President in 1880, he ran a strong campaign, but was narrowly defeated by Republican James A. Garfield. Read more... Did you know... ... that the writer ?smet Kr's father and sister were writers, and her daughter is also a writer? ... that Alma Lutz was the biographer of women's rights activists including Susan B. Anthony, Elizabeth Cady Stanton, and Emma Willard? ... that U.S. President Donald Trump has proposed to revoke government funding using the rescission process, which was successfully used 461 times prior to 2000 but has never been attempted since? ... that Dirom Grey Crawford's roll of the Indian Medical Service includes the biographies of 6,156 officers? ... that Sir Cusack Patrick Roney was knighted for his role as secretary to the Great Industrial Exhibition of 1853? ... that artist Go Mishima selected his pen name as a tribute to his friend, the writer Yukio Mishima? ... that Australian actor George Pullar attended an army boot camp to prepare for his role in the drama series Fighting Season? ... that anime musician Yuiko ?hara was selected as a brand ambassador of Japan's Baseball Challenge League? ... that missile scientist Song Jian was the architect of China's one-child policy? ... that Sir Barry Shaw was the first Director of Public Prosecutions for Northern Ireland? ... that Richard Painter, chief ethics lawyer to President George W. Bush, is suing President Trump for his alleged violation of the US Constitution? ... that Kathleen Hall Jamieson, author of Cyberwar, thinks it "highly probable" that Russia changed the outcome of the 2016 U.S. presidential election? Need help? Do you have a question about Biography that you can't find the answer to? Consider asking it at the Wikipedia reference desk. Get involved For editor resources and to collaborate with other editors on improving Wikipedia's Biography-related articles, see WikiProject Biography. Selected images James Boswell wrote what many consider to be the first modern biography, The Life of Samuel Johnson, in 1791. John Foxe's The Book of Martyrs, was one of the earliest English-language biographies. Third Volume of a 1727 edition of Plutarch's Lives of the Noble Greeks and Romans printed by Jacob Tonson Eminent Victorians set the standard for 20th century biographical writing, when it was published in 1918. Einhard as scribe In the news 3 March 2019  2019 Estonian parliamentary election Jri Ratas, incumbent Prime Minister of Estonia, and his party gets second place in the election, while opposition leader Kaja Kallas's Estonian Reform Party gets the largest number of votes, and the right-wing Conservative People's Party doubles in seats. (BBC) 1 March 2019  North KoreaVietnam relations North Korean leader Kim Jong-un begins an official visit to Vietnam, three days after arriving in the country for a nuclear summit with U.S. President Donald Trump that ended in deadlock. (The Straits Times) 28 February 2019  2019 North KoreaUnited States Hanoi Summit, North KoreaUnited States relations The summit between U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un in Hanoi abruptly ends earlier than scheduled, with the White House saying no deal has been reached in regards to relations between the two countries and North Korea's nuclear weapons policies and sanctions due to them. (NBC News) 28 February 2019  2019 Venezuelan presidential crisis Venezuelan opposition leader and interim president Juan Guaid said Thursday he will return to his country by Monday, and that a dialogue with President Nicols Maduro won't be possible without discussing elections. (CNN) 27 February 2019  2019 North KoreaUnited States Hanoi Summit U.S. President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un meet face-to-face for the first time since their summit last year. (CNBC) 26 February 2019  2019 North KoreaUnited States Hanoi Summit North Korean leader Kim Jong-un visits his country's embassy in Hanoi on Tuesday in preparation for the summit. (Reuters) Subcategories Select [?] to view subcategories ? Biography (genre) ? Biography awards ? Biographers ? Family history ? Biography journals ? Biographical museums ? Oral history ? Person databases ? Sports biographies ? The Biography Channel shows ? Biographical works ? People ? People by association ? People by behavior ? People by ethnicity ? People by event ? People by gender ? People by language ? People by medical or psychological condition ? People by nationality ? People by occupation ? People by organization ? People by place ? People by political orientation ? People by rebellion ? People by religion ? People by revolution ? People by role ? People by status ? People by time ? Categories by individual ? People categories by type ? Lists of people ? Biography (genre) ? Personal coats of arms ? Depictions of people ? Families ? Fictional characters ? Human names ? Articles about multiple people ? Mythological characters ? Oldest people ? Wikipedia books on people ? People stubs ? Wikipedia categories named after people Recognized content Featured articles DJ AM Aaliyah Lazarus Aaronson Abu Nidal Chinua Achebe Eliza Acton John Adair Amy Adams Doc Adams John Adams Samuel Adams Nick Adenhart edn mac Gabrin lfheah of Canterbury lle of Sussex thelbald of Mercia thelbald, King of Wessex thelberht of Kent thelberht, King of Wessex thelfld thelred, Lord of the Mercians thelred of Mercia thelstan A thelstan thelwold theling thelwulf, King of Wessex Ben Affleck Afonso, Prince Imperial of Brazil Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan Jonathan Agnew Spiro Agnew Ahmose I Muhammad al-Durrah incident Albert, Prince Consort Prince Albert Victor, Duke of Clarence and Avondale Alboin Alcibiades Suicide of Leelah Alcorn Aldfrith of Northumbria Alexander of Greece Alexander of Lincoln Alexandra of Denmark Hadji Ali Princess Alice of Battenberg Alice in Chains Charles-Valentin Alkan Gubby Allen Ike Altgens Lus Alves de Lima e Silva, Duke of Caxias Tommy Amaker Princess Maria Amlia of Brazil Herman Vandenburg Ames Grand Duchess Anastasia Nikolaevna of Russia Anna Anderson William T. Anderson Mrio de Andrade Maya Angelou Anna of East Anglia Anne of Denmark Anne, Queen of Great Britain Mary Anning Anthony Roll Antiochus XII Dionysus Marshall Applewhite Yasser Arafat Harriet Arbuthnot Archimedes Princess Louise, Duchess of Argyll Lilias Armstrong Neil Armstrong Chester A. Arthur King Arthur Albert Stanley, 1st Baron Ashfield Elias Ashmole Andjar Asmara Aspasia Asser Asylum confinement of Christopher Smart Charles Atangana Attalus I James T. Aubrey Audioslave Augustine of Canterbury Augustus Alice Ayres Ba C?t Kroger Babb Walter Bache Alexis Bachelot Ivan Bagramyan Hobey Baker James Robert Baker Thomas Baker (aviator) Vidya Balan Baldwin of Forde Albert Ball John Balmer George Calvert, 1st Baron Baltimore Honor de Balzac Eric Bana Bronwyn Bancroft Ann Bannon Alexandre Banza Heinrich Br Anna Laetitia Barbauld Joseph Barbera John Barbirolli Alben W. Barkley William Barley Sid Barnes Sid Barnes with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Natalie Clifford Barney Nicky Barr Richard Barre John Barrymore Basiliscus Arnold Bax Thomas F. Bayard Hugh Beadle The Beatles Felice Beato Princess Beatrice of the United Kingdom Kevin Beattie Otto Becher J. C. W. Beckham Thomas Beecham Isabella Beeton Bix Beiderbecke Jean Bellette Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky and the Belyayev circle Judah P. Benjamin Shelton Benjamin William Sterndale Bennett Beorhtwulf of Mercia Moe Berg Gottlob Berger Hector Berlioz Frank Berryman Ramn Emeterio Betances Biddenden Maids Big Star Steve Biko Golding Bird Norman Birkett, 1st Baron Birkett Georges Bizet Black Francis Blackbeard Luke P. Blackburn Frank Bladin James G. Blaine Thomas Blamey Sophie Blanchard Enid Blyton R. V. C. Bodley Barthlemy Boganda Niels Bohr Jean Bolikango John F. Bolt Margaret Bondfield Stede Bonnet Daniel Boone Brian Booth William Borah Carsten Borchgrevink Bernard Bosanquet (cricketer) Oliver Bosbyshell Harriet Bosse William Bostock Horatio Bottomley Adrian Boult Matthew Boulton Luc Bourdon David Bowie James Bowie William D. Boyce James E. Boyd (scientist) Juan Davis Bradburn Bessie Braddock Guy Bradley William O'Connell Bradley Don Bradman Don Bradman with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Lester Brain Joel Brand William M. Branham John C. Breckinridge Political career of John C. Breckinridge Matthew Brettingham Eric Brewer William Brill (RAAF officer) Benjamin Britten Isaac Brock Martin Brodeur John Brooke-Little Neil Brooks Bill Brown (cricketer) Jesse L. Brown John Y. Brown (politician, born 1835) William Robinson Brown Raymond Brownell Stanley Bruce Steve Bruce William Bruce (architect) William Speirs Bruce Avery Brundage Louise Bryant Martin Bucer Simon Bolivar Buckner William Burges Guy Burgess Burke and Hare murders Robert Burnell Frank Macfarlane Burnet Henry Cornelius Burnett Henry Burrell (admiral) William Henry Bury The Bus Uncle Alan Bush James Wood Bush Kate Bush Vannevar Bush Josephine Butler Pedro lvares Cabral Cdmon Cdwalla of Wessex William de St-Calais William Calcraft John C. Calhoun John Calvin Marjorie Cameron Elizabeth Canning Richard Cantillon Georg Cantor Mike Capel Rudolf Caracciola Neville Cardus Mariah Carey Caroline of Ansbach Charles Carroll the Settler Rachel Carson Rudolph Cartier Nancy Cartwright Finn M. W. Caspersen Robert Catesby Catherine de' Medici Ceawlin of Wessex James Chadwick Neville Chamberlain Rise of Neville Chamberlain Happy Chandler Charlie Chaplin Percy Chapman Ian Chappell Charles I of England Charles II of England Jessica Chastain Harry Chauvel Anton Chekhov Robert de Chesney V. Gordon Childe Choe Bu Frdric Chopin Priyanka Chopra Murray Chotiner Chrisye Colley Cibber Clarence 13X Wesley Clark Dudley Clarke Rebecca Clarke (composer) Clement of Dunblane Cleopatra Cleopatra Selene of Syria Grover Cleveland Cliff Clinkscales Hillary Clinton Harry Cobby Jane Cobden Coenred of Mercia Coenwulf of Mercia Adrian Cole (RAAF officer) Paul Collingwood A. E. J. Collins Martha Layne Collins Bert Combs James B. Conant Constantine II of Scotland Learie Constantine Henry Conwell William Cooley Calvin Coolidge Bradley Cooper D. B. Cooper Gary Cooper John Sherman Cooper Edward Drinker Cope William de Corbeil Richard Cordray Walter de Coutances Stan Coveleski Walter de Coventre Nol Coward William Cragh Ian Craig Stephen Crane Thomas Cranmer Jack Crawford (cricketer) O. G. S. Crawford Tom Crean (explorer) Dick Cresswell Thomas Crisp John J. Crittenden Ben Crosby C. R. M. F. Cruttwell Andrew Cunningham, 1st Viscount Cunningham of Hyndhope Urse d'Abetot Roderic Dallas Damageplan Richard Dannatt Charles Darwin Homer Davenport Phillip Davey David I of Scotland Elizabeth David Harold Davidson Russell T Davies S. O. Davies George Andrew Davis Jr. Jefferson Davis Emily Davison John Day (printer) William de Ros, 6th Baron de Ros Death of Jimi Hendrix Claude Debussy Frederick Delius Demosthenes Bill Denny Tom Derrick Joseph Desha Hermann Detzner Deusdedit of Canterbury Emily Dickinson John Diefenbaker Diocletian Disappearance of Natalee Holloway Walt Disney Benjamin Disraeli D. Djajakusuma Djedkare Isesi Steve Dodd Charles Domery Domitian Donnchadh, Earl of Carrick John Doubleday (restorer) Alec Douglas-Home John Douglas (architect) Marjory Stoneman Douglas Theodore Komnenos Doukas Neal Dow Roy Dowling Nick Drake Tom Driberg Montague Druitt Peter Drummond (RAF officer) W. E. B. Du Bois Du Fu Thch Qu?ng ??c Tim Duncan Bud Dunn Kirsten Dunst Don Dunstan Pavle ?urii? Bob Dylan Eadbald of Kent Ealdred (archbishop of York) Eardwulf of Northumbria Bobby Eaton Brian Eaton Charles Eaton (RAAF officer) Isabelle Eberhardt Ecgberht, King of Wessex Adam Eckfeldt Edward II of England Edward III of England Edward VI of England Edward VII Edward VIII Edward the Elder Duncan Edwards Henry Edwards (entomologist) Monroe Edwards Michael Francis Egan Jrgen Ehlers Elagabalus Edward Elgar Elizabeth I of England Elizabeth II Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother Thomas Ellison Ernest Emerson Ray Emery William Hayden English Epaminondas Ernest Augustus, King of Hanover William Etty Demetrius III Eucaerus Leonhard Euler Antiochus X Eusebes David Evans (RAAF officer) Edmund Evans Hiram Wesley Evans Peter Evans (swimmer) Exhumation and reburial of Richard III of England Neil Hamilton Fairley Family of Gediminas Bernard Fanning Richie Farmer Ray Farquharson Adolfo Farsari Gabriel Faur Guy Fawkes Bob Feller Percy Fender Enrico Fermi Kathleen Ferrier Richard Feynman Nikita Filatov Millard Fillmore Zelda Fitzgerald Pain fitzJohn Ian Fleming Ernie Fletcher Murder of Yvonne Fletcher Theoren Fleury Gilbert Foliot Joseph B. Foraker Gerald Ford Wendell Ford George Formby George Formby Sr Georg Forster George Fox Terry Fox Rakoto Frah Anne Frank Ursula Franklin Frederick III, German Emperor Robin Friday Caspar David Friedrich John Frusciante Florence Fuller Margaret Fuller Karl Aloys zu Frstenberg Dave Gallaher Ronnie Lee Gardner James A. Garfield Tyrone Garland Robert Garran James Garrard Ragnar Garrett William Garrow Ben Gascoigne Jacob Gens Geoffrey (archbishop of York) George I of Great Britain George I of Greece George II of Great Britain George III of the United Kingdom George IV of the United Kingdom George V George VI Prince George of Denmark Gerard (archbishop of York) Lisa del Giocondo Bobby Gibbes Stella Gibbons Josiah Willard Gibbs William Gibson John Gielgud W. S. Gilbert Gilberto Silva Adam Gilchrist Arthur Gilligan Nicolo Giraud John Glenn Harry Glicken Prince William, Duke of Gloucester Stanley Goble Godsmack William Goebel Vincent van Gogh Emma Goldman Michael Gomez E. Urner Goodman George H. D. Gossip Arthur Gould (rugby union) Chris Gragg Otto Graham Percy Grainger Rachel Chiesley, Lady Grange Ulysses S. Grant John de Gray El Greco Horace Greeley Debora Green Stanley Green The Greencards Herbert Greenfield Augusta, Lady Gregory Wayne Gretzky Joseph Grimaldi Rufus Wilmot Griswold Orval Grove Leslie Groves Rhys ap Gruffydd Bryan Gunn Jake Gyllenhaal Maggie Gyllenhaal H.D. Richard Hakluyt Ayumi Hamasaki Ron Hamence with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Wally Hammond Amir Hamzah Valston Hancock Winfield Scott Hancock Learned Hand Mark Hanna William Hanna Colin Hannah Warren G. Harding Donald Hardman William Harper (Rhodesian politician) Benjamin Harrison Fairfax Harrison George Harrison William Henry Harrison Phil Hartman Francis Harvey Neil Harvey with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Dominik Haek Hasekura Tsunenaga Lindsay Hassett with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Anne Hathaway Simon Hatley Eric A. Havelock Richard Hawes Ethan Hawke John Hay Rutherford B. Hayes Elwood Haynes Frank Headlam George Headley Reginald Heber Princess Helena of the United Kingdom John L. Helm William Hely Ernest Hemingway Paul Henderson Canadian drug charges and trial of Jimi Hendrix Jimi Hendrix Henry I of England Henry III of England Henry (bishop of Finland) Patrick Henry Thierry Henry George Went Hensley Katharine Hepburn George Herriman Edmund Herring Herbie Hewett Joe Hewitt (RAAF officer) Georgette Heyer Peter Heywood Hilary of Chichester Clem Hill Damon Hill Lynn Hill William Hillcourt Thomas C. Hindman Hippocrates George Hirst Garret Hobart Jack Hobbs Philip Seymour Hoffman Ima Hogg James Hogun Charles Holden Les Holden Stanley Holloway Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr. Gustav Holst Imogen Holst Michael Hordern Kenneth Horne Rogers Hornsby E. W. Hornung Brian Horrocks Nicholas Hoult House of Plantagenet Margaret Lea Houston Art Houtteman Juwan Howard C. D. Howe Robert Howe (Continental Army officer) Cedric Howell Hu Zhengyan L. Ron Hubbard Thomas J. Hudner Jr. Robert Hues Paterson Clarence Hughes Caesar Hull Karmichael Hunt Josh Hutcherson Anne Hutchinson Len Hutton Hygeberht Jarome Iginla Fanny Imlay Joaquim Jos Incio, Viscount of Inhama Ine of Wessex Charles Inglis (engineer) Harold Innis Irataba Isabeau of Bavaria Hastings Ismay, 1st Baron Ismay Israel the Grammarian Ivan Alexander of Bulgaria Satoru Iwata Andrew Jackson Archie Jackson Janet Jackson John Francis Jackson Michael Jackson Mike Jackson (British Army officer) Hattie Jacques James II of England James VI and I Eusbe Jaojoby Douglas Jardine Peter Jeffrey (RAAF officer) Frank Jenner Peter Jennings Jrgen Jensen (soldier) Jesus Derek Jeter Dobroslav Jev?evi? Muhammad Ali Jinnah Joan of Arc Jocelin of Glasgow Joehana Scarlett Johansson John Edward Brownlee as Attorney-General of Alberta John, King of England Andrew Johnson Ian Johnson (cricketer) Joseph Johnson (publisher) Keen Johnson Keith Johnson (cricket administrator) Magic Johnson Early life of Samuel Johnson Samuel Johnson Andrew Johnston (singer) David A. Johnston John W. Johnston Angelina Jolie Murder of Dwayne Jones George Jones (RAAF officer) Peter Jones (missionary) Michael Jordan Bradley Joseph Jane Joseph Josquin des Prez Jovan Vladimir Joy Division Ernest Joyce James Joyce Master Juba Justus Franz Kafka Paul Kagame Kareena Kapoor Sonam Kapoor Abdul Karim (the Munshi) Masako Katsura J. R. Kealoha Maynard James Keenan George F. Kennan Assassination of Robert F. Kennedy Wihtred of Kent Susi Kentikian Jomo Kenyatta Johannes Kepler Mark Kerry Andr Kertsz Albert Kesselring Albert Ketlbey Akhtar Hameed Khan Shah Rukh Khan Hasan al-Kharrat Nikita Khrushchev Craig Kieswetter Harmon Killebrew Roy Kilner Bart King Elwyn Roy King Bruce Kingsbury Thomas C. Kinkaid The Kinks Johann von Klenau Frank Klepacki Nigel Kneale John Knox Kalki Koechlin Manuel I Komnenos Tadeusz Ko?ciuszko Sandy Koufax George Koval Christopher C. Kraft Jr. Walter Krueger Paul Kruger Nikolai Kulikovsky Nodar Kumaritashvili Cynna Kydd Lady Gaga Gilbert du Motier, Marquis de Lafayette Ruby Laffoon Mathew Charles Lamb Daniel Lambert Osbert Lancaster Kenesaw Mountain Landis Franklin Knight Lane Cosmo Gordon Lang George Lansbury LaRouche criminal trials Brie Larson Harold Larwood Lat Laurence of Canterbury Jennifer Lawrence John Le Mesurier L Quang Tung Raymond Leane Louis Leblanc Faith Leech Vivien Leigh mile Lemoine Vladimir Lenin John Lennon Dan Leno Helmut Lent John Lerew David Lewis (politician) Maurice Leyland Lie Kim Hok Marcel Lihau Eli Lilly Ernst Lindemann Trevor Linden Ray Lindwall with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 El Lissitzky Little Tich Marie Lloyd Stefan Lochner Kellie Loder Carl Hans Lody James B. Longacre William de Longchamp Prince Louis of Battenberg Courtney Love David Lovering Edward Low James Russell Lowell Sam Loxton Sam Loxton with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 John Bingham, 7th Earl of Lucan Steve Lukather Glynn Lunney Luo Yixiu Roberto Luongo Witold Lutos?awski Marcus Ward Lyon Jr. Douglas MacArthur's escape from the Philippines Douglas MacArthur Charlie Macartney George Macaulay Angus Lewis Macdonald John A. Macdonald Gregor MacGregor Iven Mackay Aeneas Mackintosh Archie MacLaren Bruno Maddox Charles Edward Magoon Gustav Mahler Miriam Makeba Malcolm X Garnet Malley Manchester Mummy Nelson Mandela Olivia Manning Margaret (singer) Clements Markham John Churchill, 1st Duke of Marlborough Sarah Churchill, Duchess of Marlborough Francis Marrash Jack Marsh Bob Marshall (wilderness activist) Thomas R. Marshall Billy Martin Mary II of England Mary, Queen of Scots Mary of Teck George Mason Jules Massenet Empress Matilda William Matthews (priest) Maximian Maximus the Confessor Murray Maxwell Jimmy McAleer Early life and military career of John McCain John McCain Bill McCann John McCauley James Whiteside McCay George B. McClellan Barbara McClintock James B. McCreary Lanny McDonald Bob McEwen William McGregor (football) William McKinley Lesley J. McNair Frank McNamara (RAAF officer) H. C. McNeile Harry McNish Paul McCartney Ian Dougald McLachlan Alan McNicoll Ian Meckiff Ezra Meeker Jacobus Anthonie Meessen Megadeth Mellitus Danie Mellor Felix Mendelssohn Menkauhor Kaiu Meshuggah Andr Messager Olivier Messiaen Metallica Bob Meusel August Meyszner Khalid al-Mihdhar Military service of Ian Smith Harvey Milk Early life of Keith Miller Keith Miller in the 194647 Australian cricket season Keith Miller with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Kylie Minogue Sherman Minton Nancy Mitford Muhammad I of Granada Arthur Mold Emery Molyneux Marilyn Monroe Madeline Montalban Pierre Monteux Claudio Monteverdi George Moore (novelist) Henry Moore James Moore (Continental Army officer) Julianne Moore Fred Moosally Emanuel Moravec Howie Morenz Sandra Morgan Benjamin Morrell Arthur Morris Edwin P. Morrow Benjamin Mountfort Mozart in Italy Muhammad ibn Tughj al-Ikhshid Rani Mukerji Baron Munchausen Madman Muntz Murasaki Shikibu Alister Murdoch Audie Murphy Cillian Murphy Harry Murray Margaret Murray Stan Musial Al-Mu'tasim Florence Nagle Fridtjof Nansen Daisy Jugadai Napaltjarri Wintjiya Napaltjarri Makinti Napanangka Ram Narayan Francis Nash Elizabeth Needham Neferefre Neferirkare Kakai James Nesbitt Hugh de Neville Ralph Neville James Newland Sydney Newman Bill Newton Ng ?nh C?n Nguy?n Chnh Thi Carl Nielsen Nigel (bishop of Ely) Nine Inch Nails Nirvana (band) Pat Nixon Richard Nixon Emmy Noether John Mowbray, 3rd Duke of Norfolk Ruth Norman Roger Norreis Emperor Norton Nostradamus The Notorious B.I.G. Louie Nunn Nyuserre Ini Mary Margaret O'Reilly Barack Obama Ian O'Brien engus I Oerip Soemohardjo Offa of Mercia Kevin O'Halloran Grand Duchess Olga Alexandrovna of Russia Grand Duchess Olga Nikolaevna of Russia Olga Constantinovna of Russia Mark Oliphant Bronwyn Oliver Laurence Olivier Gerard K. O'Neill Opeth J. Robert Oppenheimer The Orb Bill O'Reilly (cricketer) Leo Ornstein Deepika Padukone Lionel Palairet Emmeline Pankhurst Honrio Hermeto Carneiro Leo, Marquis of Paran Jos Paranhos, Viscount of Rio Branco Jack Parsons (rocket engineer) William Sterling Parsons Ben Paschal George S. Patton George S. Patton slapping incidents Paul E. Patton Ellis Paul Paulinus of York Robert Peake the Elder Franklin Peale Pearl Jam Kosta Pe?anac Pedro I of Brazil Pedro II of Brazil Pedro Afonso, Prince Imperial of Brazil Bobby Peel Walter Peeler I. M. Pei Penda of Mercia Jerry Pentland Thomas Percy (Gunpowder Plot) Pericles Katy Perry Henry Petre Ph?m Ng?c Th?o Phan ?nh Phng Phan Xch Long Philip I Philadelphus Philitas of Cos Roy Phillipps Tommy Phillips Artur Phleps Frank Pick Franklin Pierce Albert Pierrepoint Witold Pilecki Jzef Pi?sudski Pink Floyd Harold Pinter Freida Pinto Benedetto Pistrucci Henry Ho?olulu Pitman Brad Pitt Pixies John Plagis Jacques Plante Thomas Playford IV Gabriel Pleydell Edgar Allan Poe Virginia Eliza Clemm Poe Jean Baptiste Point du Sable James K. Polk Reg Pollard (general) Edwin Taylor Pollock Bill Ponsford Lazare Ponticelli Manuel Marques de Sousa, Count of Porto Alegre Francis Poulenc Ezra Pound Powderfinger Premiership of John Edward Brownlee Elvis Presley Joseph Priestley Adelaide Anne Procter Alain Prost Tom Pryce CM Punk Hilary Putnam Minnie Pwerle Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky and The Five Vidkun Quisling R.E.M. Jean-Joseph Rabearivelo Isidor Isaac Rabi Arthur W. Radford Radiohead Ion Heliade R?dulescu Rainilaiarivony Ramesses VI Norodom Ranariddh Kangana Ranaut Ranavalona I Ranavalona III Samuel J. Randall Milos Raonic Maurice Ravel Satyajit Ray William F. Raynolds Nancy Reagan Ronald Reagan Red Barn Murder Talbot Baines Reed Richard Gavin Reid Marian Rejewski Stamata Revithi Wilfred Rhodes Richard II of England J. R. Richard Maurice Richard Ralph Richardson Louis Riel Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov Jochen Rindt Doug Ring with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Mariano Rivera Hilda Rix Nicholas Robert of Jumiges George Robey Jackie Robinson Bobby Robson Roekiah Woodes Rogers Ambrose Rookwood Prince Romerson George W. Romney Mitt Romney Juan Manuel de Rosas Hannah Primrose, Countess of Rosebery Elias Abraham Rosenberg Hrithik Roshan Art Ross Lawrence Sullivan Ross Pierre Rossier James Rowland (RAAF officer) J. K. Rowling Jacob van Ruisdael Bill Russell Babe Ruth Alexander Cameron Rutherford Rex Ryan John/Eleanor Rykener William S. Sadler Lady Saig? Camille Saint-Sans Joe Sakic Teresa Sampsonia Omayra Snchez Terry Sanford Joey Santiago Sasha (DJ) Mark Satin Reg Saunders Stanley Savige Henry W. Sawyer Antonin Scalia Frederick Scherger Sigi Schmid Charles Scott (governor) Robert Falcon Scott John Martin Scripps Uriel Sebree Laura Secord Daniel Sedin Henrik Sedin Seleucus VI Epiphanes Norman Selfe Peter Sellers Domenico Selvo Joel Selwood Waisale Serevi William H. Seward Sex Pistols Friedrich Wilhelm von Seydlitz Ernest Shackleton Kenneth R. Shadrick Olivia Shakespear William Shakespeare Solomon P. Sharp Edmund Sharpe George Bernard Shaw Sebastian Shaw (actor) Joseph Francis Shea Wail al-Shehri Isaac Shelby Mary Shelley Shen Kuo Alan Shepard Elliott Fitch Shepard Jack Sheppard Kate Sheppard Shepseskare John Sherman William Tecumseh Sherman Grace Sherwood Mary Martha Sherwood Sheshi Dmitri Shostakovich Alfred Shout Shunzhi Emperor Sabrina Sidney Arthur Sifton Silverchair Simeon I of Bulgaria Tom Simpson Wallis Simpson Siward, Earl of Northumbria Red Skelton Slayer Andrew Sledd Louis Slotin The Smashing Pumpkins Bed?ich Smetana Faryl Smith Ian Smith Issy Smith Lee Smith (baseball) Ozzie Smith Samantha Smith Albertus Soegijapranata Georg Solti Aaron Sorkin Albert Speer Lou Spence Edgar Speyer Jo Stafford Myles Standish Charles Villiers Stanford Augustus Owsley Stanley Ringo Starr Paul Stastny William T. Stearn G. Ledyard Stebbins Gwen Stefani Rod Steiger Ed Stelmach Casey Stengel Stephen I of Hungary Stephen, King of England Stereolab Thaddeus Stevens Clare Stevenson Melford Stevenson Charles Stewart (Canadian politician) Stigand Constance Stokes Emma Stone Strapping Young Lad Eduard Streltsov Charlotte Stuart, Duchess of Albany Hod Stuart Ronald Stuart Vernon Sturdee Sudirman Arthur Sullivan Jethro Sumner The Supremes Sviatoslav I of Kiev Taylor Swift John Millington Synge Joseph Szigeti William Howard Taft Paul Palaiologos Tagaris Toru Takemitsu Don Tallon Bazy Tankersley Tarrare Paul Nobuo Tatsuguchi Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky Edward Teller Terry-Thomas Theobald of Bec Theramenes Teresa Cristina of the Two Sicilies Nguy?n Ng?c Th? Thomas of Bayeux Murder of Julia Martha Thomas Thomas the Slav William Beach Thomas Jim Thome Tiny Thompson Tom Thomson Ian Thorpe Jeremy Thorpe Jim Thorpe Thrasybulus Thurisind Paul Tibbets Tichborne case Benjamin Franklin Tilley Benjamin Tillman Michael Tippett Tiridates I of Armenia Joseph W. Tkach James Tod Mary Toft J. R. R. Tolkien Billy Joe Tolliver Death of Ian Tomlinson Tn Th?t ?nh Mark Tonelli Tool (band) Ernie Toshack Ernie Toshack with the Australian cricket team in England in 1948 Edgar Towner Bert Trautmann John Treloar (museum administrator) Marcus Trescothick Francis Tresham Stephen Trigg Sarah Trimmer Harry Trott Harry R. Truman Harry S. Truman Hugh Trumble Harriet Tubman George Tucker (politician) Thurman Tucker Dick Turpin John Tyler John Tyndall (politician) U2 Morihei Ueshiba Unas Uncle Tupelo Fakih Usman P. K. van der Byl Mario Vargas Llosa Ralph Vaughan Williams Hedley Verity Peter Martyr Vermigli Georges Vzina Princess Victoria of Hesse and by Rhine Queen Victoria Giovanni Villani Barry Voight Kurt Vonnegut Jerry Voorhis Rudolf Vrba Vesna Vulovi? Ellis Wackett Abe Waddington John Lloyd Waddy Cosima Wagner Richard Wagner Princess Charlotte of Wales Kenneth Walker Alfred Russel Wallace Hector Waller Hugh Walpole Francis Walsingham Hubert Walter Allan Walters William Walton Joe Warbrick William Warelwast Blair Wark John Wark Peter Warlock Jack L. Warner George Washington (inventor) Roger Waters Emma Watson Oswald Watt Evelyn Waugh Lawrence Weathers James B. Weaver Stanley Price Weir Roy Welensky Henry Wells (general) Lawrence Wetherby Tyrone Wheatley Mortimer Wheeler Ryan White Gough Whitlam John Whittle The Wiggles Wiglaf of Mercia William Wilberforce Wilco Maurice Wilder-Neligan Wilfrid Ellen Wilkinson William III of England William IV of the United Kingdom William of Wrotham William of Tyre William the Conqueror Bernard Williams Michelle Williams (actress) Nigel Williams (conservator) Richard Williams (RAAF officer) Nathaniel Parker Willis Wendell Willkie John Wilton (general) Bob Windle Kate Winslet Reese Witherspoon W?adys?aw II Jagie??o P. G. Wodehouse Mary Wollstonecraft Rudolf Wolters Anna May Wong Henry Wood Samuel Merrill Woodbridge Michael Woodruff Fanny Bullock Workman Edward Wright (mathematician) John Michael Wright Henry Wrigley Wulfhere of Mercia William Wurtenburg Yagan Yao Ming Robert Sterling Yard Murder of Joanna Yeates W. B. Yeats Frank Zappa Zenobia Catherine Zeta-Jones Zhang Heng Zhou Tong (archer) Preity Zinta Otto Julius Zobel Scott Zolak Nikita Zotov Huldrych Zwingli Associated Wikimedia The following Wikimedia Foundation sister projects provide more on this subject: Wikibooks Books Commons Media Wikinews News Wikiquote Quotations Wikisource Texts Wikiversity Learning resources Wiktionary Definitions Wikidata Database What are portals? List of portals Purge server cache Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Portal:Biography&oldid=885931147" Categories: Biography portal Biography portals Biography (genre) Hidden categories: Pages including recorded pronunciations (English) Portals with untriaged subpages from June 2018 All portals with untriaged subpages All portals Portals with short description Wikipedia semi-protected portals Wikipedia move-protected portals Portals with titles not starting with a proper noun Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Portal Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons Wikisource Languages ??????? ????? Bn-lm-g ????????? ?????????? ?????????? (???????????)? ????????? Bosanski Brezhoneg Catal Cebuano ?etina Deutsch ?????????? Eesti ???????? Espaol Esperanto ????? Franais ??????? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? Kapampangan ??????? ??????? Kiswahili Kurd ???????? Latvieu Lietuvi? ?????????? ?????? Bahasa Melayu ?????????? ??? ??????? Occitan Polski Portugus Romn? ??????? ????? ???? Sloven?ina Soomaaliga ????? ?????? / srpski ????????? Suomi ???????/tatara ?????? ?????????? ???? Xitsonga Yorb ?? ?? Edit links This page was last edited on 3 March 2019, at 07:07 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
>>>>>>> branch 'development' of https://grigorasalex@bitbucket.org/grigorasalex/search_engine.git
