Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 5,810,064 articles in English Arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article Partial pelvic bone Plesiorycteropus was a mammal from Madagascar that became extinct sometime after 200 BCE, as evidenced by radiocarbon dating. Upon its description in 1895 by French naturalist Henri Filhol, Plesiorycteropus was classified with the aardvark, but more recent studies have found little evidence for that linkage. Molecular evidence instead suggests that it is related to the tenrecs, in the order Afrosoricida. Two species are recognized, the larger P. madagascariensis and the smaller P. germainepetterae; subfossil remains of both species have been found in the same site. Only limb and partial pelvis and skull bones have been recovered to date. Plesiorycteropus was probably a digging animal that fed on insects such as termites and ants. It also shows adaptations for climbing and sitting. Estimates of its mass range from 6 to 18 kilograms (13 to 40 lb). Forest destruction by humans may have contributed to its extinction. (Full article...) Recently featured: Istanbul M-28 (Michigan highway) SMS Kronprinz Archive By email More featured articles Did you know... Trout Lake, Colorado (1879) ... that Hamilton Hamilton, best known for his landscapes of the American West (example shown), was born in England and lived most of his life in the American East? ... that Manchester City conceded only one goal in regular time en route to the 2019 EFL Cup Final against Chelsea today? ... that on a 1932 visit to the Soviet Union, S. Ramanathan was not allowed to meet Joseph Stalin because the Indian politician had also met with Trotskyists? ... that Suoyang City, a major commercial and cultural center on the Silk Road for more than a millennium, was listed as a World Heritage Site in 2014? ... that a bunker built by prisoners of Kaufering concentration camp is still in use by the German Air Force? ... that Vincent Boussard staged Manon for Vilnius, San Francisco, and Seoul, and I puritani for Liège and Frankfurt? ... that in 2014, the Zoo Interchange in Milwaukee became the first place that orange pavement markings were tested in the United States? ... that after snitching on a drug cartel, José Manuel Garza Rendón may live the rest of his life like a "hunted rabbit"? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news DNA double helix Scientists synthesize Hachimoji DNA using four new nucleobases not found in natural DNA (structure pictured). A fire in a historic district of Dhaka, Bangladesh, kills at least 80 people. German fashion designer Karl Lagerfeld, best known for his creative work at Chanel, dies at the age of 85. A suicide bombing attack near Pulwama, in Indian-administered Kashmir, kills 40 security personnel. NASA concludes the 15-year Opportunity Mars rover mission after being unable to wake the rover from hibernation. Ongoing: Haitian protests Venezuelan presidential crisis Battle of Baghuz Fawqani Recent deaths: E Dongchen Stanley Donen Hilde Zadek Nick Cafardo Vinny Vella Nominate an article On this day February 24: Independence Day in Estonia (1918) Soldiers marching through the Kasserine Pass 1525 – A Spanish-Imperial army defeated a French force in the Battle of Pavia, the decisive engagement of the Italian War of 1521–1526. 1711 – George Frideric Handel's Rinaldo, the first Italian language opera written specifically for the London stage, premiered. 1803 – The U.S. Supreme Court, in Marbury v. Madison, declared an act of Congress unconstitutional for the first time, forming the basis of judicial review. 1943 – World War II: The Battle of Kasserine Pass (soldiers pictured), the first major engagement between American and Axis forces in Africa, ended with the Allied forces suffering heavy losses. 1989 – United Airlines Flight 811 experienced an uncontrolled decompression after leaving Honolulu International Airport in Hawaii, killing nine passengers when their seats were sucked out of the aircraft. Marc-Antoine Charpentier (d. 1704) · Lydia Becker (b. 1827) · Judah Folkman (b. 1933) More anniversaries: February 23 February 24 February 25 Archive By email List of historical anniversaries Today's featured picture Lancashire is a county in the north west of England. Founded in 1182, Lancashire emerged as a major commercial and industrial region during the Industrial Revolution. Liverpool and Manchester grew into its largest cities, with economies built around the docks and the cotton mills respectively. The county's borders were redrawn significantly in 1974, as the urban regions around Liverpool and Manchester were removed to form the counties of Merseyside and Greater Manchester and the northern area became part of Cumbria. This picture, titled The Countie Pallatine of Lancaster Described and Divided into Hundreds, 1610, is a map of Lancashire engraved in around 1627 by John Speed. It features a street plan of the county town, Lancaster, and side panels containing portraits of kings from the House of Lancaster and the House of York. Engraving: John Speed; restoration: Adam Cuerden Recently featured: Cardiss Collins Albert Reiss Papilio machaon Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning materials and activities Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 5,810,064 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. More than 1,000,000 articles: Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands ??? Polski Português ??????? Svenska Ti?ng Vi?t ?? More than 250,000 articles: ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu Català ?eština Esperanto Euskara ????? ??? Magyar Norsk Român? Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe ?????????? More than 50,000 articles: Bosanski ????????? Dansk Eesti ???????? English (simple form) Galego ????? Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvi? ?????? Norsk nynorsk Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ??? Complete list of Wikipedias Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=870437359" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Languages ??????? ????????? Bosanski Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? Latviešu Lietuvi? Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ??????? Simple English Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ??? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? This page was last edited on 24 November 2018, at 20:20 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
