Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 5,817,575 articles in English Arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article Jun Takeuchi Resident Evil 5 is a third-person shooter video game developed and published by Capcom, and produced by Jun Takeuchi (pictured). It was released for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles on March 5, 2009. The plot involves an investigation of a terrorist threat by counter-terrorist agents Chris Redfield and Sheva Alomar in Kijuju, a fictional region of Africa. It is the seventh major installment in the Resident Evil series, and the first designed for two-player cooperative gameplay. Critics described the game as closer to the action genre than the survival horror of other games in the series. Resident Evil 5 had a mostly positive reception, although it was criticized for problems with its controls. The game was re-released for Nvidia Shield, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One in 2016. As of September 2018, it had sold over 7.4 million units, making it Capcom's second best-selling game and the best-selling game of the Resident Evil franchise. (Full article...) Recently featured: John Adams Liberty Head double eagle Battle of Auberoche Archive By email More featured articles Did you know... Mary Bulkley ... that 18th-century British actress Mary Bulkley (pictured) was once hissed by her audience because she had "taken the son of her long-term lover to her bed"? ... that Dale Earnhardt Jr. won the 2003 Budweiser Shootout stock car race despite starting from the back of the grid? ... that Hou Xun was the chief scientist of a major research project on ultrafast phenomena? ... that Adipicola pelagica was first discovered living on floating whale blubber? ... that Italian beach volleyball player Viktoria Orsi Toth did not like her sport at first, describing it as "some kind of a daily torture"? ... that the Limburger Domsingknaben, a boys' choir founded in 1967 by Wilhelm Kempf to sing at the Limburg Cathedral, took part in the premiere of Kagel's Sankt-Bach-Passion? ... that real-life X-ray technician Paul Bateson, convicted of murder 40 years ago today, played the X-ray technician in The Exorcist's cerebral angiogram scene? ... that over 200,000 people applied to be part of Oriental Wrestling Entertainment? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news Muhammadu Buhari A severe tornado outbreak hits the Southeastern United States, with one tornado causing at least 23 deaths in Alabama. Heightened tensions remain between India and Pakistan after both countries conduct airstrikes. Muhammadu Buhari (pictured) is re-elected President of Nigeria. Cardinal George Pell becomes the highest-ranking member of the Catholic Church to be convicted of child sexual abuse. Ongoing: Battle of Baghuz Fawqani Venezuelan presidential crisis Recent deaths: Johnny Romano Keith Flint Franco Macri Ogden Reid Katherine Helmond Norma Paulus Nominate an article On this day March 5: Shrove Tuesday (Western Christianity, 2019); Learn from Lei Feng Day in China; St Piran's Day in Cornwall, United Kingdom The Bloody Massacre, engraved by Paul Revere 1279 – The Livonian branch of the Teutonic Order suffered a great loss when 71 knights died in the Battle of Aizkraukle. 1770 – The Boston Massacre (engraving shown): British soldiers fired into a crowd in Boston, Massachusetts. 1811 – Peninsular War: In the Battle of Barrosa, an Anglo-Spanish-Portuguese force trying to lift the Siege of Cádiz defeated a French attack but could not break the siege itself. 1966 – BOAC Flight 911 disintegrated and crashed near Mount Fuji shortly after departure from Tokyo International Airport, killing all 113 passengers and 11 crew members on board. 1975 – Computer hobbyists in Silicon Valley held the first meeting of the Homebrew Computer Club, whose members would go on to have great influence on the development of the personal computer. Edward Cornwallis (b. 1713) · Olav Bjaaland (b. 1873) · Ailsa McKay (d. 2014) More anniversaries: March 4 March 5 March 6 Archive By email List of historical anniversaries Today's featured picture Shrovetide Revellers is a painting by the Dutch Golden Age painter Frans Hals, painted around 1616–17 and now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. The painting shows people enjoying festivities at Shrovetide, an annual carnival of food and jollity which takes place before the Christian fasting season of Lent. Painting: Frans Hals Recently featured: Lightning How a Mosquito Operates John Biddle Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning materials and activities Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 5,817,575 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. More than 1,000,000 articles: Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands ??? Polski Português ??????? Svenska Ti?ng Vi?t ?? More than 250,000 articles: ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu ????????? Català ?eština Esperanto Euskara ????? ??? Magyar Norsk Român? Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe ?????????? More than 50,000 articles: Bosanski Dansk Eesti ???????? English (simple form) Galego ????? Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvi? ?????? Norsk nynorsk Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ??? Complete list of Wikipedias Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=870437359" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Languages ??????? ????????? Bosanski Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? Latviešu Lietuvi? Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ??????? Simple English Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ??? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? This page was last edited on 24 November 2018, at 20:20 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
