Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Main Page From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia Jump to navigation Jump to search Welcome to Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia that anyone can edit. 5,818,603 articles in English Arts Biography Geography History Mathematics Science Society Technology All portals From today's featured article Mildred H. McAfee The WAVES (Women Accepted for Volunteer Emergency Service) served in the United States Naval Reserve during World War II. In July 1942, the Naval Reserve was authorized to accept women as commissioned officers and at the enlisted level, effective until six months after the war, which freed up many men for ship duty. Mildred H. McAfee (pictured), on leave as president of Wellesley College, became the first director of the WAVES. The notion of women serving in the Navy was not widely supported in Congress or by the Navy, but it was supported by the Navy's Women's Advisory Council, Margaret Chung, and Eleanor Roosevelt, the First Lady of the United States. The WAVES were primarily white, but eventually included 72 African-American women. Serving at 900 stations in the United States and the territory of Hawaii, many of the women experienced workplace hostility, but almost all of them looked upon their service as beneficial. (Full article...) Recently featured: Australasian gannet AirTrain JFK Brie Larson Archive By email More featured articles Did you know... Cactus wren on a saguaro cactus ... that the cactus wren (pictured) builds nests shaped like American footballs in spiny cholla and saguaro cactus but, despite this protection, the coachwhip snake still preys on chicks? ... that Alma Webster Powell earned a law degree from New York University while on a break from her operatic career? ... that kerbs in Northern Ireland are sometimes painted to denote the political views of local residents? ... that actor Tom O'Sullivan's first television role was on Home and Away as a journalist who got into a fight with Alf Stewart (Ray Meagher)? ... that six-time world snooker champion Steve Davis reached his 100th career final in the 2005 UK Championship? ... that Amy Shuler Goodwin is the first woman to serve as mayor of Charleston, West Virginia? ... that Mendelssohn was requested to compose Psalm 100 for the new Hamburg Temple, but probably set it as Jauchzet dem Herrn, alle Welt for the Berlin Cathedral? ... that after stimulating them with electricity, Hans Steinert described the worm-like twitching of his patients' muscles? Archive Start a new article Nominate an article In the news Ethiopian Airlines aircraft ET-AVJ in February 2019 China and others halt Boeing 737 Max 8 flights after the crash of Ethiopian Airlines Flight 302 (aircraft pictured), which killed all 157 people on board. A severe tornado outbreak hits the Southeastern United States, with one tornado causing 23 deaths in Alabama. Heightened tensions remain between India and Pakistan after both countries conduct airstrikes. Muhammadu Buhari is re-elected President of Nigeria. Ongoing: Battle of Baghuz Fawqani Venezuelan presidential crisis Recent deaths: Tom Ballard Michael Gielen Keith Harvey Miller José Pedro Pérez-Llorca Alí Domínguez Magenta Devine Nominate an article On this day March 11: National Heroes and Benefactors Day in Belize (2019); Commonwealth Day in the Commonwealth of Nations (2019) Dale Dyke Dam in Sheffield, after its rupture 1845 – M?ori forces led by chiefs Te Ruki Kawiti and H?ne Heke destroyed the British settlement of Kororareka in New Zealand, beginning the Flagstaff War. 1864 – The Great Sheffield Flood killed at least 240 people and damaged more than 600 homes, after a crack in the Dale Dyke Dam (pictured) caused it to fail. 1941 – World War II: The Lend-Lease Act was signed into law, allowing the United States to supply the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union, China, France and other Allied nations with vast amounts of war materiel. 1999 – Infosys became the first Indian-registered company to have its shares listed on NASDAQ. 2009 – A teenage gunman engaged in a shooting spree at a secondary school in Winnenden, Germany, killing 16, including himself. Clemente Tabone (d. 1665) · Benjamin Tupper (b. 1738) · Didier Drogba (b. 1978) More anniversaries: March 10 March 11 March 12 Archive By email List of historical anniversaries From today's featured list Royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom Twenty-seven members of the British royal family have lived to the age of 80 years or older since the Acts of Union 1707 established the Kingdom of Great Britain. These British royal family members consist of two centenarians, eight nonagenarians, and seventeen octogenarians. Of the British royals who have lived to 80 years or longer, twenty have been women and seven have been men. Seventeen of the twenty-seven royals aged 80 or older have been members of the British royal family by blood and eleven have been members through marriage. Of the royals to reach the age of 80 or older, only Princess Mary, Duchess of Gloucester and Edinburgh, was a member of the British royal family by both blood and marriage. The longest-living member of the British royal family has been Princess Alice, Duchess of Gloucester, who lived 102 years and 309 days. Princess Alice became the oldest ever member of the royal family when she surpassed the age of 101 years and 238 days in 2003, the age at which Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother died in 2002. (Full list...) Recently featured: Lauren Bacall on screen and stage Registrar of the University of Oxford Category 2 Pacific hurricanes Archive More featured lists Today's featured picture Rigoletto is an opera in three acts by Giuseppe Verdi. The Italian libretto was written by Francesco Maria Piave, based on the play Le roi s'amuse by Victor Hugo. Despite serious initial problems with the Austrian censors who had control over northern Italian theatres at the time, the opera had a triumphant premiere at La Fenice in Venice on 11 March 1851. The story is a tragedy which revolves around the licentious Duke of Mantua, his hunch-backed court jester Rigoletto, and Rigoletto's beautiful daughter Gilda. This picture is Roberto Focosi's illustration to the variant first edition of Rigoletto's vocal score. It depicts the opera's Bella figlia dell'amore scene. Artwork: Roberto Focosi; Lithograph: Francesco Corbetta; Restoration: Adam Cuerden Recently featured: Topi Pittsburgh Costa Rican colón Archive More featured pictures Other areas of Wikipedia Community portal – Bulletin board, projects, resources and activities covering a wide range of Wikipedia areas. Help desk – Ask questions about using Wikipedia. Local embassy – For Wikipedia-related communication in languages other than English. Reference desk – Serving as virtual librarians, Wikipedia volunteers tackle your questions on a wide range of subjects. Site news – Announcements, updates, articles and press releases on Wikipedia and the Wikimedia Foundation. Village pump – For discussions about Wikipedia itself, including areas for technical issues and policies. Wikipedia's sister projects Wikipedia is hosted by the Wikimedia Foundation, a non-profit organization that also hosts a range of other projects: Commons Free media repository MediaWiki Wiki software development Meta-Wiki Wikimedia project coordination Wikibooks Free textbooks and manuals Wikidata Free knowledge base Wikinews Free-content news Wikiquote Collection of quotations Wikisource Free-content library Wikispecies Directory of species Wikiversity Free learning materials and activities Wikivoyage Free travel guide Wiktionary Dictionary and thesaurus Wikipedia languages This Wikipedia is written in English. Started in 2001 (2001), it currently contains 5,818,603 articles. Many other Wikipedias are available; some of the largest are listed below. More than 1,000,000 articles: Deutsch Español Français Italiano Nederlands ??? Polski Português ??????? Svenska Ti?ng Vi?t ?? More than 250,000 articles: ??????? Bahasa Indonesia Bahasa Melayu ????????? Català ?eština Esperanto Euskara ????? ??? Magyar Norsk Român? Srpski Srpskohrvatski Suomi Türkçe ?????????? More than 50,000 articles: Bosanski Dansk Eesti ???????? English (simple form) Galego ????? Hrvatski Latviešu Lietuvi? ?????? Norsk nynorsk Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ??? Complete list of Wikipedias Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Main_Page&oldid=870437359" Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Main Page Talk Variants Views Read View source View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF Printable version In other projects Wikimedia Commons MediaWiki Meta-Wiki Wikispecies Wikibooks Wikidata Wikinews Wikiquote Wikisource Wikiversity Wikivoyage Wiktionary Languages ??????? ????????? Bosanski Català ?eština Dansk Deutsch Eesti ???????? Español Esperanto Euskara ????? Français Galego ??? Hrvatski Bahasa Indonesia Italiano ????? ??????? Latviešu Lietuvi? Magyar Bahasa Melayu Nederlands ??? Norsk Norsk nynorsk Polski Português Român? ??????? Simple English Sloven?ina Slovenš?ina ?????? / srpski Srpskohrvatski / ?????????????? Suomi Svenska ??? Türkçe ?????????? Ti?ng Vi?t ?? This page was last edited on 24 November 2018, at 20:20 (UTC). Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement Mobile view
